How many home for sale signs do you see in
your neighborhood?
We are Dave and Mary from Front-Porch-Ideas-and-More.com
These are examples of homes for sale in nearby
neighborhoods.
How do you set your home apart from others?
How do you create a look that will give potential
buyers a reason to walk inside?
How do you compete with other homes like yours
that are for sale in your own neighborhood?
Are you using your porch to sell your home?
You should! It is easy and it is inexpensive.
Your porch is a way to increase your home
curb appeal. Remember it is what potential
home buyers see first.
So how do you make it appealing.
We at Front-Porch-Ideas-and-More.com were
asked to give this suburban home some curb
appeal.
The owners did not want to spend a lot of
money. They wanted to create a welcoming look.
As you can see it's a fairly simple concrete
porch. Let us see what can be done in a day
to create the look the owners wanted.
Let us start with two basic decorating ideas:
color and focal point.
You want to select colors that complement
your home and you want to create a focal point,
something that catches the eye.
We did both by selecting a beautiful spring
wreath in purples, yellows and greens to complement
the house colors.
These are great spring colors that can easily
be used throughout the spring and summer months.
The wreath can be seen from the street and
is an impressive site when you open the door.
We found a wreath at Michaels craft store
on sale. The colors are bold but not overpowering.
Now we use the same colors in the wreath on
other areas on the porch.
While at Michaels we also found this spring
flag and purchased it for a nominal cost.
The flag serves two purposes. It complements
our colors and it draws attention to the porch.
Remember your 5 senses and try to incorporate
each of them in your porch decorating scheme.
It is always a good idea to include something
with motion on your porch.
It is seen by passers-by as it blows in the
breeze.
Flags like this are easy to attach. A few
screws attach the pole to the column.
Now you have instant color and movement.
Because this porch is small we wanted to use
all of it. It does not have much width but
it does have height.
A hanging basket will help tie the upper and
lower parts of the porch together.
Because it is still early in the year, we
decided to use artificial flowers in purples,
yellows and greens.
We don't have to water it so it will keep
the porch cleaner for showing.
The hanging basket along with the wreath and
the flag add interest to the upper part of
the porch.
Now let us attack the lower porch. The concrete
floor had stains and was not the most appealing
part of the porch.
But that is an easy fix. We painted the floor.
We purchased a gallon of concrete paint in
tan at Home Depot.
It only took about 20 minutes to paint it.
Then while the paint was drying we started
our next project.
Although our porch is relatively small, there
is space for a small bench. The bench serves
two purposes also.
First, the bench fills the space with something
useable and we can paint it to complement
our color scheme.
It also serves as an enticement to the potential
buyers to sit and watch their children plan
in the large driveway or as a place for a
morning cup of coffee.
We made the bench from treated wood lumber.
It costs under $25 to build and we designed
it so that anyone could make it.
It only took about two hours to construct.
We minimized cutting to only cross cuts and
used exterior screws for assembly.
The legs are made of 1 x 6 treated deck boards
and the seat is made from 1 x 4 decking.
The back is made by cutting fence boards.
You can either attach the back to the seat
or use it freestanding.
Next we purchased 3 inexpensive pots at Home
Depot and painted it with a can of purple
spray paint.
We planted pansies and snapdragons in the
pots. The same plants the homeowners planted
in an adjacent garden.
Placement of the pots is important. We tried
several variations.
This one is fine but it just does not give
us the look we wanted.
They are just too low for the porch. So we
made a shelf out of the scraps we had left
from making the bench project and painted
it green.
It gave us height but still didn't look quite
right. So we grouped the containers together
which gave us a lot nicer look.
The flowers because they were young did not
fill the pots. So we purchased some very inexpensive
artificial flowers and will remove them when
the real flowers grow to fill the pots.
We replaced their old black doormat with one
of spring colors to liven up the porch floor
and give it a little pizzazz.
After we replaced everything on the porch,
we noticed it needed something.
There was a lot of wall space between the
front picture window and the door.
We needed to break that large space and focus
attention on the porch.
We found this nice sign at Michaels and with
a little crafting transformed it into a nice
sign for right next to the front door.
So there you have it - a curb appealing porch.
The owners loved it and based upon the before
and the after pictures, we are sure a potential
buyer will love it, too.
Here is a competing home's porch. And here
is ours. Which one might you walk into?
We hope we showed you how to use your porch
to help sell your home.
To learn more about this porch project and
other porch decorating ideas, be sure to visit
us at Front-Porch-Ideas-and-More.com
Note: This home sold within a month and the
owners were very happy about that!